Tell us something about Docker Compose.
contains details about the services, networks, and volumes for setting up the Docker application
What is Docker Swarm?
Docker swarm init
What is a Docker Namespace?
What is the lifecycle of a Docker Container?
* Create a container
* Run the container
* Pause the container(optional)
* Un-pause the container(optional)
* Start the container
* Stop the container
* Restart the container
* Kill the container
* Destroy the container


What is Docker Machine?

How to check for Docker Client and Docker Server version?
docker version

How do you get the number of containers running, paused and stopped?
docker info

How to get help about any docker command?
docker  command --help

How to login into docker repository?
docker login

How do you create a docker container from an image?
docker run -it -d image_name

How do you list all the running containers?
docker ps

Suppose you have 3 containers running and out of these, you wish to access one of them. How do you access a running container?
docker exec -it container id bash

How to start, stop and kill a container?
docker start container_id
docker stop container_id
docker kill container_id

how do you push it to docker hub?
docker push username/image name

How to delete a stopped container?
docker rm  container id

How to delete an image from the local storage system?
docker rmi  image-id

How to build an image from Dockerfile? 
docker build .

Do you know why docker system prune is used? What does it do?
docker system prune is used to remove all stopped containers.

Will you lose your data, when a docker container exists?
No

Is there a way to identify the status of a Docker container?
docker ps -a

Can a container restart by itself?
By default the flag -restart is set to false.

Is it better to directly remove the container using the rm command or stop the container followed by remove container?

Is it a good practice to run stateful applications on Docker?

state-full vs stateless application
A stateless app is an application program that does not save client data generated in one session for use in the next session with that client.


Docker Interview Question.Part-3
1- What is a Docker Registry?
Docker Cloud and Docker Hub are the public registries where these images can be hosted upon.
Docker Data Centre (DDC) can also be used which includes DTR (Docker Trusted Registry).

2- What are the Docker Objects?
Docker Objects are Docker Images, Services, and Docker Containers

3- Can you tell the reasons why Container Networking is so important?
* Containers need to talk to the external world. 
* Reach Containers from the external world to use the service that Containers provide. 
* Allows Containers to talk to the host machine. 
* Inter-container connectivity in the same host and across hosts. 
* Discover services provided by containers automatically. 
* Load balance traffic between different containers in a service.
* Provide secure multi-tenant services.

4- How to create a user-defined Bridge network?
#docker network create your_nw_name

5- How is overlay network different from bridge network?
Bridgeworks on single host overlay support among multiple servers connectivity.

6- What networks are affected when you join a Docker host to an existing Swarm?

7- How shall you disable the networking stack on a container?
#docker run -it --network none alpine sh

8-How to check details of a network in a docker container?
#docker inspect container_ID


9- What is Docker Swarm?
Docker Swarm is native clustering for Docker and it turns a pool of Docker hosts into a single, virtual Docker host. 

10- Can you explain different volume mount types available in Docker?
Volumes are stored in a part of the host filesystem which is managed by Docker (/var/lib/docker/volumes/ on Linux
Bind mounts may be stored anywhere on the host system
tmpfs mounts are stored in the host system’s memory only and are never written to the host system’s filesystem.

11- What is the role of .dockerignore file?

12- What is the purpose of EXPOSE command in Dockerfile?
This is used for port mapping between docker host and docker container.

13- How is ENTRYPOINT instruction under Dockerfile different from CMD instruction?


14- Why Build cache in Docker is so important?
If objects are not changed between two builds of a docker container image, docker can use build cache with becomes time-saver at the time of building the image.

15- What are the most common instructions in Dockerfile?
FROM alpine
MAINTAINER Server Ryan
LABEL: "Application_Environment"="Development"
RUN yum update && yum -y install httpd
RUN mkdir -p /data/servergyan
WORKDIR /data/myscript
CMD python app.py
EXPOSE 80 443
EXPOSE 80/tcp 8080/udp
ADD /root/testfile /data/
COPY . .
ENTRYPOINT ping google.com
VOLUME /appdata:/appdata
USER instruction is used to set the username, group name, UID and GID for running subsequent commands. Else the root user will be used.
ENV APP_DIR /data/
ARG TMP_NAME mycustom_image
ONBUILD RUN yum install httpd

What is Docker?
What is the advantage of Docker over hypervisors?
What is Docker Image?
What is Docker Container?
What is Docker hub?
How to create a Docker container?
docker run -t -i image
How many containers can run per host?
Is Container technology new?
What are the networks that are available by default?
Difference between Docker Image and container?

Docker container is the runtime instance of the docker image.

Docker Image does not have a state, and its state never changes as it is just a set of files whereas docker container has its execution state.

What is difference b/w docker and VM?
Why do my services take 10 seconds to recreate or stop?

How do I run multiple copies of a Compose file on the same host?
custom project name using the -p command-line option or the COMPOSE_PROJECT_NAME environment variable.

Can I use JSON instead of YAML for my Compose file?
docker-compose -f docker-compose.json up

Should I include my code with COPY/ADD or a volume?
OR
What is the difference between ADD and COPY in Dockerfile?
copy command in docker is used for copying the local files but when it comes to copying objects from remote servers , urls we have to use ADD command in docker
How do you save Docker Image?
Docker save -o image.tar.gz  container-tag
Docker load 




